Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) allows organizations to utilize AWS instead of 
owning and operating their own datacenter. You can simply rent VMs or physical 
servers from AWS.


The Platform as a Service (PaaS) on the other hand removes the need for your
organization to manage the underlying platforms like a database, streaming services, etc. 
This allows you to focus on the deployment and management
of your core applications and not worry about the IaaS and PaaS layers.

The Amazon Web Services Infrastructure consists of four primary areas which are a combination of IaaS and PaaS:

    Compute (EC2, LightSail, ECS, Lambda, Batch)
    Storage (EBS, EFS, S3, Glacier, Storage Gateway, Storage Migration Services)
    Database (RDS, Redshift)
    Network (CloudFront, VPC, Direct Connect, Load Balancing, Route 53)

Compute(EC2): This is where you create/deploy your own virtual machine. At AWS you have a w
ide variety of compute instances you can choose from. This ranges from the type of operating 
system you would choose to the RAM or CPU you would want your compute instance to have.

Elastic Container Services(ECS): It is used to run and manage your Docker containers. 
You can think of it as a managed Kubernetes service.

LightSail (VPS Service – Virtual Private service): AWS Lightsail launches virtual private servers, 
which are VMs with individual operating systems but restricted access to physical server resources.

Lambda: Lambda lets you upload a function onto AWS and you pay every time the function is 
executed or called. You do not need to think about managing the OS or the VM. Lambda does it all for you.

Batch: Batch computing is used for Batch processing. AWS Batch dynamically provisions the optimal 
quantity and type of compute resources 

Simple Storage Service (S3): Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) is an object storage service offering
 industry-leading scalability, data availability, security, and performance. 

Glacier: It is a storage service used for Data archival. It is primarily used to store data that you do not 
need to use right away. 

Snow Ball: It is used to transport a large amount of data onto AWS or to take it out of AWS and move 
it to your data center.
AWS ships you a hardware device that you plug into your data center and then upload your encrypted data 
onto the snowball (Hardware device). You will then ship it to AWS and they will upload your data onto AWS. 
This way you do not need to move your data through the internet as it might take months to move petabytes
of data onto AWS.

Storage Gateway: It is a VM you install in your data center and this replicates data back into S3. This is used
 when you have an on-premises data-center and would like to replicate the data onto AWS. 


Amazon Route 53 is a scalable and highly available Domain Name System (DNS) web service designed to 
give developers and businesses an extremely reliable way to route end users to Internet applications. 
It connects user requests to infrastructure running in AWS—such as Amazon EC2 instances, Elastic Load 
Balancers, or S3 buckets—and can also be used to route users to infrastructure outside of AWS.